Sparksuite’s Employee Handbook

Benefits and perks

Health
We offer full-time team members a variety of employer-sponsored health plans with company contributions. We also offer vision and dental plans, along with HSAs. The process of selecting and managing plans is made easy and seamless by our payroll provider.

Health plans
The following plans from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Texas are available for the 2025-2026 coverage period:
Blue Advantage Bronze HMO (HDHP) (base plan)
Blue Choice Bronze PPO (HDHP)
Blue Choice Silver PPO
Blue Advantage Gold HMO
Blue Advantage Platinum HMO
Blue Choice Platinum PPO

Dental and vision plans
The following plans from Beam are available for the 2025-2026 coverage period:

Dental SmartPremium Plus
Vision VSP Choice
Health savings account
Team members with a health plan that meets the requirements for a “High Deductible Health Plan” (HDHP) can optionally add a health savings account (HSA) as a tax-saving measure for many types of health expenses.

Company contribution
Our company will contribute 50% of the cost of the employee’s base health plan premium, toward whichever of the above health plans the employee chooses. Here’s a hypothetical example of what that looks like:

			Plan A (base)	Plan B	Plan C
Employee premium	$300		$400	$500
Company contribution	$150		$150	$150
Employee contribution	$150		$250	$350

There is no company contribution toward dental premiums, vision premiums, or HSAs.

Coverage period
Our benefits coverage period is from March 1st through February 28/29th of the following year.

Enrollment
For new team members, coverage can typically begin as early as the next 1st of the month following your hire date. The exception to this is, if you’re hired on the 1st of a month, dental and vision plans can begin the same day.

Existing team members will receive communications each year regarding the annual open enrollment period (the period when changes can be made to health benefits). If you have a “qualifying life event,” team members can notify our payroll provider, and they can assist with making changes to health benefits during a special enrollment period.

Premium pricing
Our plans use “member-level” premiums, where each covered person’s premium is based on their age and ZIP code. This is different than “composite” premiums, where employees are placed into one of four categories (employee only, employee + spouse, employee + dependents, employee + spouse + dependents). Composite premiums are more common with large employers but have several shortcomings, especially with small- to mid-sized employers.

If you’re a candidate in one of our hiring processes, and you’d like an estimate for you and your family’s premiums, let us know and we can provide this to you.

FAQs
Can a family mix-and-match the above health plans? Unfortunately, no. Family members must use the same plan the employee chooses, or opt for coverage from elsewhere.
Can an employee decline health coverage? Yes, but proof-of-coverage from a different health plan must be provided.
If an employee declines health coverage, can their spouse and/or dependents still receive coverage? Unfortunately, no. Since the employee is the primary on the plan, for their spouse and/or dependents to receive coverage through our company, the employee cannot decline coverage.
Are part-time employees eligible for the above health plans? Unfortunately, no. Our insurance carriers do not provide coverage to part-time employees.

Paid time off
We want our team to be happy and refreshed, and to maintain a healthy work-life balance, so every employee earns generous paid time off that can be used freely for vacations and adventures, time with loved ones, appointments, sick days, jury duty, and just about anything else. This is in addition to company observed holidays.

How it works
You’ll earn a specific amount of paid time off each year based on your current work anniversary, as shown in the table below:

Work anniversary	Paid time off, per year
Before 2-year anniversary	3 weeks
After 2-year anniversary	3.5 weeks
After 4-year anniversary	4 weeks
The amount you earn is converted to hours (where 1 week equals 40 hours for full-time employees or the number of hours you work in a week for part-time employees) and then divided by the number of pay periods per year to determine the amount you earn each pay period.

For example, let’s say you’re full-time and currently earning three weeks of paid time off each year (120 hours). Assuming a semi-monthly pay period, that equates to 5 hours of paid time off each pay period.
Accrued paid time off rolls over from year-to-year; however, you can only accumulate a maximum of 4 weeks of paid time off at any given time (we want you to take advantage of it!).

New employees will begin accruing paid time off during their first full pay period. Newly hired employees will begin with three days of paid time off to help out in the event something unexpected comes up early into their employment.

How to use
Paid time off can be used by notifying the person you report to as early as reasonably possible and gaining approval. Different reasons for requesting time off will naturally have different expectations for how early you’re able to send notification.

If you need to request time off for part (not all) of the day, you should include the time(s) you will be out in your time off request, in the “notes” field.

It’s preferred that you don’t dip too low into your paid time off balance, to ensure you can cover unexpected time off (like illness).

Unused balance
Any unused PTO balance will be paid out with the final paycheck if an employee leaves the company.

Flexible working hours
Team members are free to choose the start & end times that work best for them each day! All full-time team members are free to begin each day between 7am-10am and finish each day between 4pm-7pm after completing 8 hours of work. Part-time team members will be given different windows and a different number of hours per workday; these details will be made clear in any part-time job opening / offer letter.

The start & end times you choose can change day by day, and you don’t need to let anyone know when you plan to arrive or leave each day (as long as it’s within the windows described above). Need to come in later one day and earlier the next? Go for it!

Team members also have the flexibility to take breaks as desired throughout the day. To ensure our team can collaborate efficiently, significant breaks should be avoided between 10am-4pm, aside from a reasonable lunch break. However, periodic small breaks during this time are encouraged—whether it’s to enjoy a cup of coffee, grab a snack, go for a walk, or challenge a teammate to a quick game of ping pong or cornhole. Since breaks don’t count toward the amount of time worked each day, each team member is entrusted with the ability to manage their time according to their own individual preferences for how they work best.

On the off chance a more significant break (typically anything over an hour) needs to be taken during your workday, just be sure to communicate this with your manager in advance so that they’re aware. These types of breaks should be rare but are permitted without taking PTO as long as it doesn’t interfere with your ability to complete a full workday and it doesn’t impede your ability to perform the responsibilities of your role.

Employees generally still have access to the office outside of the 7-7 working window, but working outside of these hours should be reserved for extreme circumstances (like a software outage that needs immediate attention). However, feel free to enjoy the games or game tables at the office anytime with friends + family!

Free-lunch Fridays
On the first Friday of each month, we gather together for a free meal. It’s a time to foster camaraderie, build friendships, and grow stronger as a team.

If you have allergies or dietary restrictions, let the person in charge of ordering the food know so that we can accommodate those.

If the first Friday happens to fall on a company observed holiday, we’ll reschedule for a different date.

Note
Unlike a typical lunch break, count the time we spend gathering for free-lunch Fridays toward the time you’ve worked that day.

Office environment
In the summer of 2021, we moved into HQ v2, an office that’s radically different from our company’s first location. Driven by feedback from our team, and designed in partnership with a talented architecture firm, this second iteration of our company’s headquarters has been crafted to be an ideal working environment for team members. We’ve invested a significant amount of time, energy, and capital into every facet of the space to foster productive & enjoyable work.

Location and design
Located a few minutes from the junction of I-45 and the Grand Parkway, on the border of The Woodlands, our office is situated in a newly-constructed office park with plenty of space to roam when the weather’s nice. There’s more than enough free parking just steps from our front doors. The office park features free Tesla chargers, several green space areas, and modern architecture.

During the day, our office is flooded with natural light that permeates every area of the building thanks to ample use of exterior and interior glass. When the weather’s nice, we open the large all-glass garage door and enjoy the covered balconies on the second floor. Yard games and sports can be played in the green space behind our building.

The interior of our office is filled with beautiful and fun architecture, numerous private offices, collaborative areas, places to relax and watch TV, individual restrooms, a large break room, soft upbeat music, greenery, a ping pong table, a treadmill desk, and more.

Individual workspaces
All team members are equipped with a workstation designed to foster productivity and success. Everyone works at their own programmable standing desk with built-in USB chargers. Tucked under the desk you’ll have a personal, locking cabinet for storage.

For tech hardware, we provide cutting-edge MacBook Pros with dual or triple high-end 4K monitors. We’ll also provide your choice of keyboard, mouse, mousepad, etc. along with any other gadgets or supplies you need (like cables, test devices, notepads, sticky notes, etc.).

In addition, most team members are assigned a lockable private office for quiet, focused working. Each private office is equipped with a personal Sonos speaker for listening to whatever you please.

Snacks, beverages, and coffee
We keep our break room stocked with various snacks like granola bars, nuts, fruit bars, jerky, chips, fruits, lunch supplies, and more. Our oversized beverage fridge is full of refreshing drink choices. Getting hungry or thirsty? Feel free to grab something from the assortment of goodies. Some are healthy… some are simply delicious.

For appliances, an air fryer + toaster oven + microwave combo, refrigerator, toaster, hot/cold water dispenser, and ice maker are all at your disposal.

On the coffee front, you couldn’t be more well covered! We love coffee at Sparksuite, so our break room is brimming with some of the nicest (and highest tech) coffee equipment on the market. You’ll find an E1 Prima espresso machine, multiple Mahlkönig grinders, an Ottomatic 2.0 from Chemex, nitro cold brew on tap, specialty-roasted beans, and even a PUQpress.

If we’re missing your favorite snack or beverage, let the person in charge of ordering snacks at the office know and he or she may be able to accommodate it!

Networking and security
Our office is connected to symmetric gigabit-speed fiber internet service, with automatic & rapid failover to LTE in the event of an internet outage. Our networking and security equipment will stay online through power flickers and extended outages thanks to multiple layers of power redundancy, including a massive Tesla Powerwall. By employing state-of-the-art networking equipment from Ubiquiti, plus thoughtful network design, we’re able to provide devices with near-theoretical-maximum speeds.

Thorough coverage from high-resolution cameras, an intrusion/fire detection system monitored 24/7, strict door access control systems, well-lit parking lots, and other measures help protect our team members and property and ensure everyone feels safe working at any time of day.

Work-life balance
We believe people should enjoy a healthy balance between their work and personal life. Time with family, loved ones, and friends is important. With this in mind, we don’t expect team members to work more than 40 hours during a typical week. We all hold ourselves to this idea, even our CEO.

Anniversary swag
We strive to retain team members for a long time, so as a fun way of showing off how long you’ve worked in the Sparksuite family, we gift team members with desirable company swag after crossing various work anniversary milestones. Plus, we dish these products out at all-hands meetings so the whole team can celebrate together! These are meant to be mementos, not the reason team members stick around—that’s accomplished in other ways. Here’s our current lineup of company swag:

Start date: T-shirt (see it) & hat (see it)
1 year: Sttoke mug (see it)
3 year: Nike Dri-FIT shirt (see it)
5 year: Patagonia Torrentshell rain jacket (see it)
7 year: The North Face Flare puffer jacket (see it)
10 year: Columbia Falmouth backpack (see it)
15 year: Smartwatch (see it)

401(k)
We’ve partnered with a high-tech, ultra low-fee provider to manage our employees’ 401(k)s. Their platform and customer support are just as focused on transparency and clarity as we are. This makes it easy for you to manage your investment fund and goals and ensures you have the greatest amount available at retirement. In addition, we offer exceptional company matching to incentivize our employees to save for retirement.

Company matching
To encourage long-term savings, we’ll match your 401(k) contributions dollar-for-dollar up to 4% of your salary. This begins with your first paycheck.

Vesting
All funds contributed to your 401(k), including company matching, are 100% immediately vested.

How it works
When hired, you’ll automatically be enrolled for a 401(k) with a default contribution of 4%. You can adjust your contribution amount at any time via our 401(k) provider’s online interface. The desired amount will be withdrawn from your paycheck and contributed directly to your investment fund.

Observed holidays
Employees receive paid time off for the holidays listed below. If a holiday falls on a weekend, that holiday is observed on the closest business day.

Holiday	Observed
New Year’s Day	January 1st
Easter Monday	Day after Easter
Memorial Day	Last Monday in May
Juneteenth	June 19th
Independence Day	July 4th
Labor Day	First Monday in September
Thanksgiving	Fourth Thursday in November
Thanksgiving Friday	Day after Thanksgiving
Christmas Eve	December 24th
Christmas Day	December 25th
Note: If Christmas Eve falls on a Sunday (causing two business days to be equally close), it will be observed on the day after Christmas. Likewise, if Christmas Day falls on a Saturday, it will be observed on the following Monday.

Flexible remote work
To promote a healthy work-life balance, all full-time team members can work remotely up to 2 days each week, with extra remote days available to accommodate unexpected situations (details below). Each team member has full control over when they choose to use their remote days—no approval or advance notice needed. Part-time team members may not be eligible for remote work due to in-office needs; this detail will be made clear in any part-time job opening / offer letter.

Extra remote days
Full-time team members accrue one extra remote day on the first day of each quarter, up to a balance of 10 extra remote days. You can use these extra remote days to work remotely more than twice in a week. While it’s up to each team member to decide how and when to use their extra remote days, we recommend reserving these for unexpected situations.

Replenishing extra remote days
Full-time team members have the opportunity to earn half of an extra remote day in order to replenish a low balance. When you have fewer than 3 extra remote days in your balance, this half extra remote day can be earned by working 5 full days entirely from the office within one workweek, and it will be added to your balance on the following Wednesday.

Mixed days
If needed, you can work part of the day from the office and part of the day remotely. This counts as a remote day, so you’ll need to have a remote day available to do this. If you need to switch your work location, just be sure to inform your manager in advance and update your work location status.

Guidance
Be sure to choose and/or create a working environment that is suitable for productive work. This would include:

A fast, reliable internet connection
Your laptop and any other supplies/gear you need
Noise-level and surroundings conducive to the type of work you do
Sufficient time to work as much as you would have at the office
When choosing which days to work remotely, take into consideration your commitments and responsibilities, like whether you have meetings, company-wide events, etc. Be sure to notify team members who may be impacted by you working remotely that day.

Working remotely generally requires more effort to ensure it’s effective and productive. It will take extra work to ensure you’re still collaborating well with your teammates and exceeding their expectations. At the end of the day, your teammates are counting on you just as much as when you’re at the office.

Why not 100% remote?
As a tech company, much of our work can be performed from anywhere. Yet, we’ve found that we’re more collaborative and productive as a team when working from a co-located environment. Plus, working in-person with fellow team members fosters a stronger team culture and more meaningful connections.

To make co-located working the best possible experience, we’ve invested heavily into creating one of the most enjoyable office environments around, with plenty of snacks, indoor/outdoor break areas, ample private offices, stellar coffee, standing desks, and so much more. Our office was designed with team member feedback to be a place people genuinely want to work from.

Taco Tuesdays
Every Tuesday morning our team gathers together to enjoy delicious breakfast tacos from an assortment of local restaurants and food trucks.

If you have allergies or dietary restrictions, let the person in charge of ordering the tacos know so that we can accommodate those.


Unique culture
Sparksuite is able to provide a unique company culture, combining the best parts of an exciting startup with the best parts of a mature company. We move quickly and utilize the latest technologies. Our office environment is one of the best in the city. We set ambitious goals and strive to disrupt the industries we enter. Everyone on the team is passionate about the work we do, and we grow closer through frequent team outings.

But unlike a startup, we offer the stability of a mature, profitable company that’s been around since 2009. Further, we have no investors to answer to. As such, our team is free to focus on producing amazing work while enjoying a healthy work-life balance.

Instagram
To catch a glimpse into our company culture, follow us on Instagram!

Modern tech stacks
We employ cutting edge tools and current industry best practices wherever it makes sense. Although it’s often a delicate balance between endlessly adopting new tech and capitalizing on established processes, we recognize the value of working in modern tech stacks and regularly take time to eliminate technical debt.

We also invest heavily in designing efficient workflows company-wide. This is especially true for our engineering teams, for whom we’ve abstracted away nearly all of the DevOps processes that typically burden development speed.

New parent leave
All full-time and part-time employees, regardless of gender, can opt to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid new parent leave. This time is typically used for the new parent to welcome the new child or children into their home, but can also be used near the end of pregnancy for medical reasons.

How it works
An employee is considered a new parent four weeks before the birth of a biological child, upon adoption of a child, or upon receiving a foster child. The 12 weeks must be used within 1 year of the birth, adoption, or placement (respectively) of the new child. The leave can be taken consecutively or intermittently as needed. Since new parent leave is a form of unpaid time off, you can learn about how it works and its impacts on the unpaid time off page.

How to use
New parent leave can be used by notifying the person you report to as early as reasonably possible and gaining approval. Under normal circumstances, at least several weeks notice is expected.
