Sparksuite’s Employee Handbook

People operations
Design principles
With transparency being at the forefront of our company values, we felt it’s appropriate to share the principles that guide our thoughts and decisions when crafting (and updating) our benefits, perks, compensation, and policies. The reality is that there are a multitude of organizations that can be compared to the way we do things, but we feel confident that our approach is optimal overall for team members.

The overarching theme that drives our people ops decisions is the idea that the company’s role is to provide ample benefits and perks, and the team member’s role is to manage them in the way that suits them best. We do this by affording substantial flexibility within firm and predictable boundaries that are objective, rather than arbitrary based on individual circumstances. We also focus on keeping everything simple so that it’s more likely to inherently apply to a variety of situations—foreseeable and unforeseeable—without requiring ad hoc decisions or exceptions. What this means is setting clear expectations that consistently apply to all team members, and giving each team member the autonomy to decide how those expectations are met. Let us elaborate…

Paid time off
One notable example of this is our paid time off policy, which does not separate team members’ time off into different buckets like vacation, sick, etc. Instead, we provide a single bucket with a generous amount of time that team members can use however they’d like. This means they can use PTO to go on vacation, spend time with loved ones, participate in their favorite hobby, or just relax & do nothing! What this also means is that team members will eventually use PTO for the not-so-fun stuff like taking a sick day, attending a doctor’s appointment, reporting for jury duty, or arriving late due to unexpected traffic.

We understand that using hard-earned time off doesn’t feel great when it’s for unplanned circumstances, but we’ve designed our PTO policy this way in order to give team members the maximum flexibility possible when it comes to how and when they use their accrued time. Other companies often split time off into designated buckets, so even if the total amount of time off is similar, there are more restrictions on how and when time off can be used from each bucket. Here at Sparksuite, though, all we ask is that you properly account for your time spent away from work, and that’s it! That also means we don’t ask you to prove that you’re using time off within certain restrictions, like via a doctor’s note, which is a common occurrence for companies who have a designated “sick time” bucket.

Another great advantage of our approach is that it gives each team member the flexibility to decide how much of a cushion they prefer to keep with their PTO balance to accommodate unplanned circumstances. Companies with separate buckets usually decide the allocation of time off for each bucket, and that allocation might not match each team member’s own preferences. For example, you might only use 2 sick days one year, but if the company allocated 5 days to “sick days,” you aren’t able to use the remaining 3 days for other reasons—effectively limiting the way you redeem your time off.

Ultimately, we have determined the maximum amount of time off we feel comfortable providing, and then give team members the freedom and responsibility to choose how that time is redeemed.

Flexible working hours
Another example of offering an exceptional amount of flexibility is our flexible working hours perk. The start & end times you choose can change from day to day—no need to gain approval or notify anyone. Team members are also encouraged to take as many short breaks as desired throughout the day. The boundaries are firm in that we expect PTO to be used if you aren’t able to complete a full workday or aren’t able to start and end your day within the respective time frames. Combining flexibility with clear boundaries gives team members the autonomy to choose the hours that work best for them given their personal preferences.

Flexible remote work
Our flexible remote work policies give the opportunity to work from anywhere with reliable internet for all or part of a workday. We’ve designed this policy to be ultra-flexible by giving each team member full control over when they choose to use their remote days—once again, no approval or advance notice is needed. While other companies may designate specific days you can work remotely, we allow you to choose your days week to week; this avoids losing remote days when there are holidays or if you take time off. We also provide floating extra remote days that you decide how to use—whether it’s to save for unplanned circumstances or redeem as soon as they’re accrued. This design offers the maximum amount of flexibility and predictability by giving ample opportunity to work remotely and letting each team member decide how to make that work with their preferences and schedule.

Health premium contributions
We have designed our health contributions in a way that gives team members as much autonomy as possible when managing their benefits. We intentionally maximize team members’ salaries and minimize the company contribution toward health premiums. By putting more of the total compensation into salaries, team members have the opportunity to determine where their money goes, whether that is more to their health plan, or more toward hobbies, travel, savings, or any other interests. Ultimately, our goal with this approach is to offer the same amount of total compensation while affording team members the flexibility to allocate their money in ways that best fit their needs.

Reducing uncertainty
One significant upside to using a more objective and automatic approach with our policy design is that it eliminates the uncertainty that’s often associated with the benefits and perks a company provides. For example, you don’t need to wonder if your manager will approve a request to work remotely or wait for approval on a last-minute request. At Sparksuite, as long as you have the remote days available, you decide when to work remotely. The same concept generally applies to other benefits and perks like flexible working hours and time off. We want team members to have confidence that they can make plans for when and where they work, without the uncertainty of whether those plans will be permitted by the company or their manager.

Maximizing benefits
It’s worth pointing out that your benefits stretch further here because our flexibility affords the opportunity to avoid using benefits in situations where other companies might require it. An example is if you need to attend a doctor’s appointment in the morning, the flexible start time window means you can come in later and still complete a full workday. Or you can start your day earlier than usual to be off in time to attend an event in the afternoon. If you’re sick but feeling well enough to work, but don’t want to pass that sickness to others, our flexible remote work policy allows you to work remotely without using PTO. If you get to work later than anticipated due to traffic, you can work later to cover that time as long as you give yourself enough of a cushion. We’ve even had team members take advantage of our flexible working hours and flexible remote work policies to work within our expectations from different continents.

Ultimately, our goal is to promote a healthy work-life balance and offer perks and benefits that team members love. Because we recognize that team members have their own unique preferences, we design our policies with flexibility in mind to achieve that goal.

At-will employment
Your employment is at-will. This means that you are free to terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause and the company has a right to terminate your employment at any time as well, with or without cause. No one in the company other than the CEO has the authority to alter your at-will status or to enter into any agreement for employment for a specified period of time or to make any agreement contrary to this policy. Only the CEO may do so, and only in a written agreement signed by both the CEO and you.

Code of conduct
As a company, we hold ourselves to the highest possible standards of ethical conduct; however, this wouldn’t be possible without the people who make up our team believing in and standing behind these same ideals. To that end, we’ve developed this code of conduct to demonstrate our company values and to guide employees toward conducting themselves in an honorable way.

This code has been written using broad language that demonstrates the expectations we have for employees in general since it would be impossible to comment on every foreseeable situation. We fully expect employees to use their best judgment in all situations to uphold these values and to encourage other team members to do the same.

Who does this code apply to?
We expect all employees and board members to abide by this code of conduct. Although this code has been written with employees and board members in mind, we also expect contractors and consultants to follow this code as well.

When does this apply?
This code is critical in the office and whenever you are representing our company. However, we believe it’s reasonable for employees to uphold these values in their personal lives too. This is especially important on social media since your employment is often listed and your statements and actions can be easily viewed by millions.

Questions and concerns
Immediately report concerns to the person you report to (unless that person is the target of your concern, in which case you should report your concern to the next in rank). If you have a question about the Code of Conduct, please direct it to the person you report to.

I. Communication
When communicating in any form, always maintain a level of professionalism and carefulness so as to represent yourself and our company in a positive light. This includes all communication, whether internal or external. Here are some expectations:

Always encourage, support, and build up teammates; never tear others down.
Be honest at all times; do not try to spin the truth.
Be respectful of others, their ideas, and their beliefs.
Speak kindly; avoid rude, sharp, harsh, or mean comments.
Even during challenging circumstances, remain calm.
Never make sexist, racist, crude, or other offensive jokes or comments.
II. Integrity
Consistently act with the highest degree of integrity possible. This means making decisions and producing work that you can be proud of, no matter the situation. Be honest and open with others, and foster an environment where others can be comfortable doing the same.

Additionally, integrity involves taking personal responsibility for your actions and decisions. Nobody is perfect, so when you make mistakes, own up to them. You’ll earn more respect by doing so than by covering up the truth.

III. Preserve confidentiality
This subject is already covered by the PIIAA, but we wanted to touch on it here as well. As an employee of our company, you will almost certainly be privy to information not known to the general public. This may include upcoming features, new business models, growth strategies, business deals in-the-works, hiring decisions, business metrics, intellectual property, and so on. Leaking such information can be harmful and costly to our company. We expect all employees to be exceedingly careful to safeguard confidential information at all times.

IV. Conflicts of interest
As an employee of our company, you have an obligation to always do what’s best for our company and our users. When you are in a situation in which competing loyalties could cause you to pursue a personal benefit for you, your friends, or your family at the expense of our company or our users, you may be faced with a conflict of interest. You should take care to avoid conflicts of interest and circumstances that reasonably present the appearance of a conflict.

V. Inclusiveness
Always work to create an inclusive environment for everyone, regardless of race, color, religion, veteran status, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy status, gender, age, marital status, parental status, mental or physical disability, medical condition, physical appearance, political affiliation, or any other characteristics protected by law.

VI. Harassment
We do not tolerate harassment of anyone in any form. Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to the protected classes above, sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, photography or audio/video recording against reasonable consent, sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention. Harassment does not need to be recognized as unwanted or unwelcome by anyone other than the person being harassed.

VII. Retaliation
We will not engage in or allow retaliation against any employee who makes a good faith complaint or participates in an investigation. If you believe that you are being subjected to any kind of negative treatment because you made or were questioned about a complaint, report the concern immediately.

Dress code
Like many tech companies, we have a relaxed dress code. We do not require or expect traditional business attire of any sort. T-shirts, shorts, and athletic wear are frequently worn by our team members.

With that said though, we expect all employees to dress in a way that’s not unprofessional, tacky, or excessively distracting. Please do not wear clothing that is revealing, falling apart, noticeably dirty, or unnecessarily disruptive.

Drugs, alcohol, and weapons
Our policies regarding drugs, alcohol, and weapons are designed to promote a safe and productive work environment for all employees. They’re also designed to maintain a positive image of our company and our employees.

Because these are relatively serious subject matters, employees who violate any of these policies risk immediate termination and law enforcement intervention.

Drugs
Under no circumstances may an employee use, buy, sell, or distribute illegal drugs, whether at work or not.

Alcohol
Alcoholic beverages may be allowed in the office for select occasions; in which case, team members are expected to drink responsibly and in moderation. However, our office will be presumed dry unless otherwise indicated by a team member with authority to make exceptions to this policy.

Weapons
Weapons are not permitted in the office under any circumstances, with the exception of small pocket knives (blades under 3") and mace. Among other things, prohibited weapons include firearms, swords, fireworks, explosives, tasers, or anything that could easily be construed as a weapon given the environment.

Employee privacy
Before diving into this section, it’s important to realize that we place substantial trust in our employees and therefore respect employee privacy as much as we can.

To protect our company, though, we need to make it clear that employees do not have a right to privacy within the workplace. This includes our offices, any company owned property that you use (e.g., desk, storage, laptop, etc.), company provided online accounts and services (e.g., email, code repositories, file sharing services, etc.), and other items of this nature. With this in mind, we reserve the right to search these at any time, without warning, to ensure compliance with our policies, including those that cover employee safety, workplace violence, harassment, theft, and possession of prohibited items.

Email and internet privacy
Company provided email and internet are not being actively monitored by anyone, but because they are company resources that are managed according to company policy, you should not expect privacy from either. Our company has both the ability and the right to look at employee usage for both in order to protect employee safety and wellbeing, as well as company property and interests.

Email messages (including attachments) sent and received from a company email address are the property of our company. We reserve the right to access, monitor, read, and/or copy email messages at any time, for any reason. You should not expect privacy for any email you send using your company email, including messages that you consider to be personal or label with a designation such as “Personal” or “Private.”

We reserve the right to monitor employee use of the internet at any time. You should not expect that your use of the internet—including but not limited to the sites you visit, the amount of time you spend online, and the communications you have—will be private.

Equal opportunity
We are an equal opportunity employer and do not discriminate against qualified employees or applicants because of race, color, religion, veteran status, national origin, ancestry, pregnancy status, gender, age, marital status, parental status, mental or physical disability, medical condition, physical appearance, political affiliation, or any other characteristics protected by law. When necessary, our company will reasonably accommodate employees and applicants with disabilities if the person is otherwise qualified to safely perform all of the essential functions of the position.

Handbook acknowledgement
I acknowledge I have received access to the Sparksuite Employee Handbook, have read it, and understand its provisions. I further understand that if I have a question, I am obligated to ask the person I report to for clarification of any provisions in the Employee Handbook.

I further understand that the statements contained in the handbook do not create any contractual or other legal obligations of employment. I also understand that Sparksuite may at any time modify, rescind, or revise any policy, benefit, or practice described in the handbook, except for its policy of at-will employment.

Date: __________________________________________

Signature: __________________________________________

Printed Name: __________________________________________


Lunch breaks
All employees are encouraged to take a lunch break during the day. Generally, your offer letter will state the number of hours you’re expected to work weekly. Lunch breaks will not count toward that amount of time. Some other notes about lunch breaks:

Please eat in the kitchen or equivalent, to keep workspace equipment and furniture clean
Preferably eat with others to get to know teammates better
You’re more than welcome to leave the office to eat at local restaurants

Payroll information
All team members are paid semi-monthly on the 15th and last day of the month. Your pay will arrive via direct deposit and you’ll receive confirmation each week via email from our payroll provider. All applicable taxes will automatically be withheld, along with certain payroll deductions like retirement fund contributions.

If a payday falls on a weekend or bank holiday, the payday will occur on the closest business day leading up to the normal payday (e.g., if the 15th was a Sunday, the direct deposit would arrive on the 13th.)

You can log into our payroll provider’s website at any time to see a history of previous pay periods, view details about each payment, update your contact information, change where direct deposits are sent, and more.

Proprietary information and inventions assignment agreement
Like with most other companies, all employees are required to sign a PIIAA contract. You’ll be asked to do this on or before your start date. Loosely speaking, this type of document accomplishes two things:

It requires you to keep our company’s trade secrets confidential.
It assigns ownership of work you create for our company to our company.

Sick policy
If you’re feeling under the weather, you should first know that we hope you feel better soon! If you are experiencing symptoms of a contagious disease, we ask that you either take time off or work from home until at least 24 hours after those alleviate. Note: our remote work policy would still apply if you choose to work from home. In particular, your symptoms should not prevent you from being as productive as when you’re feeling well; if they do, please take time off instead.

If you test positive for a contagious disease but are not experiencing symptoms, we ask that you work from home for as long as the CDC recommends for that particular disease. Out of courtesy to others, if you have reason to suspect that you’ve had significant exposure to a testable contagious disease (e.g., COVID-19, the flu, strep throat, etc.), we recommend scheduling a test.

Office closures
Although we’ve taken steps to prevent the loss of certain utilities (e.g., redundant power and internet), in the rare event that the office is without power, internet, or water for a designated consecutive amount of time, we have established protocols for partial- and full-office closures.

In many ways, an office closure is like any other unexpected circumstance, where a team member may choose to work remotely or take time off—whichever meets their needs best. However, unlike other unexpected circumstances, working remotely on a day when the office is partially or fully closed won’t consume a remote day.

Partial closure
While we understand that during a partial closure the office environment won’t be ideal, we allow team members to optionally work from the office because we recognize that it may still be their best available option if they want to avoid using time off. A partial closure occurs when the office loses power for 1 hour or more, as long as backup power is not exhausted.

Full closure
The office is unavailable to team members during a full closure, which occurs when the office…

Loses internet for 30 minutes or more
Loses water for 1 hour or more
Loses backup power to our networking equipment
Notification
Team members will be notified via Slack when the status of the office is changed.

Notes
Our company attempts to monitor utilities at our office within reason; however, we recognize that we may not be aware of issues right away (or at all), and that some situations may be widespread (e.g., natural disasters) and therefore limit our company’s awareness. To help us out, if you notice a utility issue at our office, please let the appropriate team member know right away.

We’ve designed our policies to accommodate all types of unexpected events by affording a great deal of flexibility through remote work, paid time off, and unpaid time off. Because our benefits and perks already account for these types of unexpected events, in the rare event of an office closure, additional benefits or perks will not be granted.

Unpaid time off
We want to maximize flexibility for our team, so in addition to our paid time off policy—including company observed holidays—team members have the option to take unpaid time off. However, because we provide ample paid time off along with flexible remote work opportunities, we hope that needing to rely on unpaid time off is a rare occurrence.

Our unpaid time off policy is designed to be flexible enough to accommodate both short- and long-term situations. We utilize a two-bucket design to make the approval process more efficient for smaller and more infrequent requests, and to give team members more discretion over these requests, while still accommodating larger or more frequent requests.

How it works
Each team member has access to two unpaid time off buckets in our payroll system—one uses an accrual system with a more streamlined approval process and the other is subject to more careful review.

Each team member will accrue 2 weeks of unpaid time off each year in their “quick review” bucket. This accrued unpaid time off rolls over from year-to-year; however, you can only accumulate a maximum of 2 weeks of this unpaid time off at any given time. New employees will begin accruing this unpaid time off during their first full pay period.

For needs that exceed your “quick review” accrual balance, we also offer a “more review” bucket. Requests submitted through this bucket are reviewed on a case-by-case basis by your manager alongside the people ops team.

During unpaid time off, health benefits will continue; here’s how missed benefit deductions are caught up.

How to use
Unpaid time off can be used by notifying the person you report to as early as reasonably possible and gaining approval. Different reasons for requesting time off will naturally have different expectations for how early you’re able to send notification. You do not need to exhaust your PTO bucket before using UTO; however, you must exhaust your “quick review” bucket in order to use unpaid time off from your “more review” bucket.

If you need to request time off for part (not all) of the day, you should include the time(s) you will be out in your time off request, in the “notes” field.

Impact of using unpaid time off
Using unpaid time off delays your work anniversary (by the amount of unpaid time off that has been taken) for the purposes of determining annual raises, anniversary swag, and paid time off accruals. Similarly, the amount of PTO you accrue in a pay period is reduced in proportion to the amount of unpaid time off that was taken in that pay period.